= Character Ancestry =
When you choose your character's Ancestry, you determine whether your character is a member of the human race or of a fantastical race.  The description of each Ancestry includes a section of game traits, which your character gains if you select that Ancestry.  NPCs of the same ancestry don't necessarily have the same traits, as explained in the Monster Manual; the traits here are options for player characters.

 * [[creature-type|Creature Type]] - A Tag that identifies the Creature Type of your character.
 * [[creature-size|Size]] - A tag that identifies the Size of your character.  Depending on your chosen Ancestry, you may get a choice.
 * [[movement|Speed]] - A value, usually 30, that indicates the base Speed of your character.
 * Life Span - A number that indicates the average life span of others from your Ancestry.
 * [[../languages/index|Languages]] - Choose one language from the Standard languages table, which is the language you grew up speaking.  You know that language and Common.
 * [[feats|Ancestral Feats]] - You have 8 Points to spend purchasing Ancestral Feats.  Depending on your DM and your Campaign World, the feats you select may be fixed based on your chosen Ancestry, or there may be restrictions on the Ancestral Feats you may select based on your chosen Ancestry.  It's also possible your DM may give you a different number of points to spend.

== Ancestral Traits ==
Each Ancestry provides racial traits, which are a collection of abilities that characters gain from their ancestors by biology and culture.  By default, all Ancestry options have a total of 8 points of racial traits allotted to them.  In order to tailor their campaign to a less magical setting or to increase difficulty, a Dungeon Master could specify a lesser amount of points to allocate to your character.  By contrast, if a DM wanted to run a higher powered campaign, they could increase the number of points they allot and allow players to choose additional traits.

== Children of Different Humanoid Kinds ==
Thanks to the magical workings of the multiverse, Humanoids of different kinds sometimes have children together.  For example, folk who have a human parent and an orc or elf parent are particularly common.  Many other combinations are possible.  

If you would like to play the child of such a wondrous pairing, choose two Ancestry options that are Humanoid to represent your parents.  Determine which of those Ancestry options provides your Size, Speed, and Racial Traits.  Then, with your DMs approval, you can choose to replace one or more of your chosen Racial Traits with traits from your other parent, so long as they result in the same point value.

Once you have selected your Racial Traits, you can then mix and match visual characteristics - color, ear shape, and the like - of the two options.  For example, if your character has a halfling and a gnome parent, you might choose Halfling for your game traits, replace your Naturally Stealthy trait with the gnome's Darkvision trait, and then decide that your character has the pointed ears that are characteristic of a gnome.

Finally, determine the average of the two option's Life Span traits to figure out how long your character might live.  For example, a child of a halfling and a gnome has an average life span of 288 years.

== Ancestry in the Multiverse ==
Ancestry can differ across different worlds of the Multiverse.  The elves of one realm may have different traits to choose from than those from another.  Your DM will provide you with your Ancestral traits.


TODO: create additional Racial Traits based on various cultures. 
[[traits|Traits]]

This section provides descriptions and rules for the following Ancestry options:
[[human|Human]], [[ardling|Ardling]], [[dragonborn|Dragonborn]], [[dwarf|Dwarf]], [[elf|Elf]], [[gnome|Gnome]], [[halfling|Halfling]], [[orc|Orc]], [[tiefling|Tiefling]]

=== Umia ===
[[human|Human]]
[[ardling|Ardling]]
[[dragonborn|Dragonborn]]
[[dwarf|Dwarf]]
[[elf|Elf]]
[[gnome|Gnome]]
[[halfling|Halfling]]
[[orc|Orc]]
[[tiefling|Tiefling]]
[[piney|Piney]]
[[kijani|Kijani]]
[[leshy|Leshy]]

Ursanon
Leonin
Kenku
Harpy
Centaur
Yuan-ti
Goliath
Verbeeg
Oni
Elf
Fairy
Alesid
