= Leshy =
A Leshy is "born" when a skilled druid or other master of primal magic conducts a ritual to create a suitable vessel, and then a spirit chooses that vessel to be their temporary home.  Leshys are self-sufficient from the moment the ritual ends, and so they do not depend upon these druids for care, though it is not uncommon for a leshy to maintain lifelong bonds with their creators.  

Not all leshys have a strong enough spirit to strike off completely on their own, however.  Weaker nature spirits can form only tenuous bonds that are just strong enough to animate Tiny bodies.  These spirits become leshy familiars, acting as companions to their druid creators.  Independent leshys are often protective of such leshy familiars, advocating for them to be treated with dignity and respect.

Leshys are as varied as the material used to create their vessels, usually appearing as a bizarre mishmash of various plants or fungi, sometimes entangling the remains of one or more animals.  The druids who create them favor using various fungi, gourds, leaves, and vines, but occasionally use fruits, cactus, or other plant material.  Their bodies are most often vaguely humanoid in shape, though the ritual requires Large leshys to be quadrapedal - in the shape of a deer, horse, moose or similar. 

Due to the nature of the ritual used to create a leshy, they begin their lives as adults.  As spirits, they do not age and a leshy could potentially remain in the same vessel forever, though they would rarely consider that outcome to be desireable.

== Leshy Traits ==
*Creature Type.* Plant, Construct<br>
*Size.* Large (8-12 feet tall), Medium (about 4-8 feet tall) or Small (about 2-4 feet tall), chosen when you select this Ancestry<br>
*Speed.* 30 feet<br>
*Life Span.* Ends when the leshy tires of their form.<br>

As a Leshy, you have these ancestral traits.
| Leshy Traits             | Point Value | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
|--------------------------|-------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Rapid Regeneration       | 3           | As an Action, while you are in direct sunlight, you can regenerate some of your hit points.  Expend one of your Hit Dice and roll it.  You regain a number of Hit Points equal to the roll + your Consitution modifer + your Proficiency Bonus.  You can use this feature a number of times equal to your Proficiency Bonus and you regain all expended uses when you finsih a Long Rest.                                                                                                                                |
| Plant Nourishment        | 2           | You gan nourishment through some combination of photosynthesis, absorbing minerals with your roots, or scavenging decaying matter.  If you go without nourishment for 1 week, you begin to starve.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| Leshy Resistance         | 2           | You have Resistance to Poison Damage.  You also have Advantage on Saving Throws you make to avoid or end the [[../conditions#Poisoned|Poisoned]] Condition on yourself.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| Darkvision               | 1           | You gain Inspiration whenever you finish a Long Rest.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| Quadrapedal (Large only) | 0           | Your Speed increases to 40 feet.  Because you are Long, you have to squeeze when moving through trapdoors, manholes, and similar structures designed for creatures that are not Long, even if they are designed for Large creatures.  In addition, ladders, stairs, and similar structures are Difficult Terrain for you.  Any climb that requires hands and feet is especially difficult for you.  When you make such a climb, each foot of movement cost you an extra 4 feet instead of the normal 1 extra foot. |

== Leshys of Many Worlds ==
On any given world in the multiverse, the material culture of humans can change from one region to another. In the Forgotten Realms, for example, the clothing, architecture, cuisine, music, and literature are wildly different in the Western Heartlands than in the frozen north of Icewind Dale.

As humans migrate, they bring elements of their cultures with them, giving rise to diverse settlements that contain people with different physical characteristics, not to mention a medley of clothing styles, customs, and beliefs.

