= Movement =
A creature has one or more Movement Types, each associated with a Movement Speed. 

== Movement Speed ==
A creature's Movement Speed represents how far in feet it can move with short, energetic burts.  When a creature takes a Move Action, it can move any number of feet up to its speed.  A creature can break up its Move, using some of its movement before and after any other Action it takes on the same turn or between discrete activities that are part of an Action such as between attacks, if the creature has Multiattack or Extra Attack, or between the beam attacks provided by Eldritch Blast or similar spell.  If the creature breaks up its move in this way, its total distance moved must not exceed its Speed.

If a creature has more than one Movement Type, it must choose which one to use each time it takes a Move Action.

== Movement Type ==
Movement Type describes how a creature gets around.  The most common Movement Type is Walk, but others are Burrow, Climb, Fly, Jump, or Swim.  These movement types are described below.

*Walk.* A creature with a Walk Speed uses its arms, legs, pseudopods, tentacles or other body part or appendage to amble, slither, or slide across solid, horizontal surfaces such as land.  If the creature has a Walk Speed, it can also use its Speed to Crawl, Climb, Jump, or Swim, but if it does so, every foot the creature moves costs 1 extra foot of its Walk Speed.

*Burrow.* A creature with a Burrow Speed can move through sand, dirt, mud or ice.  It can’t burrow through solid rock unless it has a special trait that allows it to do so.

*Climb.* A creature with a Climb Speed can move along a vertical surface, so long as there are sufficient handholds.  A GM may still call for Athletics or Acrobatics checks to climb across slick or treacherous surfaces, unless the creature has the Spider Climb trait, which allows them to move along the underside of horizontal surfaces. 

*Fly.* A creature with a Fly Speed can move through the air, and can stay aloft until it lands, falls, or dies.  A flying creature falls if it becomes Prone, Incapacitated, or Restrained.  If you have the Hover trait, you can stay aloft even while Incapacitated or Restrained.

*Jump.* A creature with a Jump Speed can move through the air across short distances.  Like a flying creature, if a jumper becomes Incapacitated or Restrained mid-jump, they fall.  Unlike a flying creature, the Jumper must end their movement on the ground, though they may remain in the air between attacks or other actions when splitting movement.  A jumper may cover a number of feet horizontally up to their Speed, or vertically up to half their speed.

*Swim.* A creature with a Swim Speed can move effortlessly through water.  A creature can't breath underwater unless it has a special trait that allows it to do so.

== Dashing ==
A creature that takes more than one Move Action a turn is Dashing.  Dashing is an excellent way to cover a lot of ground in a short amount of time, and it comes into play a lot, especially during a chase.  However, dashing is a very taxing activity.  A creature can dash a number of rounds equal to 3 + their Constitution Modifier.  Each additional turn spent Dashing without rest requires the creature to succeed on a DC 10 Constitution Saving Throw at the end of its turn or gain one level of Exhaustion.  A creature regains their ability to dash by sitting and resting for a minute, which is assumed to occur during a Long or Short Rest.

== Difficult Terrain ==
A creature moving through Difficult Terrain is [[../conditions#Hindered|Hindered]].  This is true even if multiple things in a space count as difficult terrain.  Some examples of difficult terrain are Low furniture, rubble, undergrowth, steep stairs, snow, shallow bogs, poisonous fumes, and the space of another creature (whether hostile or not).  Note that other movement effects stack with difficult terrain, so using your Speed to Crawl through difficult terrain will cost 3 feet of movement for every 1 foot gained, and doing so while Slowed will cost 4 feet of movement for every 1 foot moved.

At the DMs discretion, climbing a vertical surface that is slippery or has few handholds, or gaining any distance in rough water might be Difficult Terrain, or it might require a successful Strength (Athletics) check to pass.

== Being Prone ==
Combatants often find themselves lying on the ground, either because they are knocked down or because they throw themselves down. In game terms, they are [[../conditions#Prone|Prone]]. You can drop Prone without using any of your speed, but standing up from Prone costs 15 feet of movement.  You can't stand up if you don't have enough movement left or if your speed is 0.

To move while Prone, you must crawl or use magic such as teleportation.

Prone creatures are [[../conditions#Vulnerable|Vulnerable]] to attackers within 5 feet, but [[../conditions#Braced|Braced]] against attackers from further away. 

If a creature becomes [[../conditions#Prone|Prone]] while flying, then it will fall and take damage unless it can hover.    

== Moving Around Other Creatures ==
During its Move, a creature can pass through a space occupied by an ally, an Incapacitated creature, or any creature that is two Sizes larger or smaller than it.  Another creature’s space is [[#Difficult Terrain|Difficult Terrain]].  A creature can’t willingly end its Move or attack while in a space occupied by another creature.

An effect may throw you into another creature's space against your will.  If this happens, both creatures are knocked [[../conditions#Prone|Prone]].

If a creature is Mountable, it costs 15 feet of movement to mount the creature, at which point the two creatures may occupy the same space.  A creature may dismount with no movement cost, so long as there is an unoccupied space within 5 feet of their mount that they can occupy.  A creature and its mount can both attack despite occupying the same space.  

== Travel Pace ==
The following rules determine how far a creature can move in a minute, an hour, or a day.

=== Travel Pace Table ===
| Pace   | Minute   | Hour    | Day      | Effect                                           |
|--------|----------|---------|----------|--------------------------------------------------|
| Fast   | 400 feet | 4 miles | 30 miles | -5 penalty to passive Wisdom (Perception) scores |
| Normal | 300 feet | 3 miles | 24 miles | -                                                |
| Slow   | 200 feet | 2 miles | 18 miles | Able to use Stealth                              |

While traveling, a group of adventurers can move at a normal, fast, or slow pace, as shown on the Travel Pace table.  The table states how far the party can move in a period of time and whether the pace has any effect.  A fast pace makes characters less perceptive, while a slow pace makes it possible to sneak around and to search an area more carefully.  

The travel speeds given in the Travel Pace Table assume relatively simple terrain: roads, open plains, or clear dungeon corridors.  But adventurers often face dense forests, deep swamps, rubble-filled ruins, steep mountains, and ice-covered ground - all considered [[#Difficult Terrain|Difficult Terrain]], halving the distance you can travel in these environments.

=== Forced March ===
The Travel Pace table assumes that characters travel for 8 hours in a day.  They can push on beyond that limit, at the risk of Exhaustion.

For each additional hour of travel beyond 8 hours, the characters cover the distance shown in the Hour column for their pace, and each character must make a Constitution saving throw at the end of the hour.  The DC is 10 + 1 for each hour past 8 hours.  On a failed save, a character suffers one level of [[Conditions#Exhaustion|Exhaustion]].

=== Mounts & Vehicles ===
For short spans of time (up to an hour), many animals move much faster than humanoids. A mounted character can ride at a gallop for about an hour, covering twice the usual distance for a fast pace. If fresh mounts are available every 8 to 10 miles, characters can cover larger distances at this pace, but this is very rare except in densely populated areas.

Characters in wagons, carriages, or other land vehicles choose a pace as normal. Characters in a waterborne vessel are limited to the speed of the vessel (see [[Equipment]]), and they don't suffer penalties for a fast pace or gain benefits from a slow pace. Depending on the vessel and the size of the crew, ships might be able to travel for up to 24 hours per day.

Certain special mounts, such as a pegasus or griffon, or special vehicles, such as a carpet of flying, allow you to travel more swiftly. The Dungeon Master’s Guide contains more information on special methods of travel.

== Activity while Traveling ==
As adventurers travel through a dungeon or the wilderness, they need to remain alert for danger, and some characters might perform other tasks to help the group’s journey.

=== Marching Order ===
The adventurers should establish a marching order. A marching order makes it easier to determine which characters are affected by traps, which ones can spot hidden enemies, and which ones are the closest to those enemies when a fight breaks out.

A character might occupy the front rank, one or more middle ranks, or the back rank. Characters in the front and back ranks need enough room to travel side by side with others in their rank. When space is too tight, the marching order must change, usually by moving characters to a middle rank.

Fewer Than Three Ranks. If an adventuring party arranges its marching order with only two ranks, they are a front rank and a back rank. If there’s only one rank, it’s considered a front rank.

=== Stealth ===
While traveling at a slow pace, the characters can move stealthily. As long as they’re not in the open, they can try to surprise or sneak by other creatures they encounter. See the rules for hiding in chapter 7 "Using Ability Scores."

=== Splitting Up The Party ===
Sometimes, it makes sense to split an adventuring party, especially if you want one or more characters to scout ahead. You can form multiple parties, each moving at a different speed. Each group has its own front, middle, and back ranks.

The drawback to this approach is that the party will be split into several smaller groups in the event of an attack. The advantage is that a small group of stealthy characters moving slowly might be able to sneak past enemies that clumsier characters would alert. A rogue and a monk moving at a slow pace are much harder to detect when they leave their dwarf fighter friend behind.

=== Noticing Threats ===
Use the passive Wisdom (Perception) scores of the characters to determine whether anyone in the group notices a hidden threat. The DM might decide that a threat can be noticed only by characters in a particular rank. For example, as the characters are exploring a maze of tunnels, the DM might decide that only those characters in the back rank have a chance to hear or spot a stealthy creature following the group, while characters in the front and middle ranks cannot.

While traveling at a fast pace, characters take a –5 penalty to their passive Wisdom (Perception) scores to notice hidden threats.

*Encountering Creatures.* If the DM determines that the adventurers encounter other creatures while they’re traveling, it’s up to both groups to decide what happens next. Either group might decide to attack, initiate a conversation, run away, or wait to see what the other group does.

*Surprising Foes.* If the adventurers encounter a hostile creature or group, the DM determines whether the adventurers or their foes might be surprised when combat erupts. See chapter 9 for more about surprise.

=== Other Activities ===
Characters who turn their attention to other tasks as the group travels are not focused on watching for danger. These characters don’t contribute their passive Wisdom (Perception) scores to the group’s chance of noticing hidden threats. However, a character not watching for danger can do one of the following activities instead, or some other activity with the DM’s permission.

*Navigate.* The character can try to prevent the group from becoming lost, making a Wisdom (Survival) check when the DM calls for it. (The Dungeon Master’s Guide has rules to determine whether the group gets lost.)

*Draw a Map.* The character can draw a map that records the group’s progress and helps the characters get back on course if they get lost. No ability check is required.

*Track.* A character can follow the tracks of another creature, making a Wisdom (Survival) check when the DM calls for it. (The Dungeon Master’s Guide has rules for tracking.)

*Forage.* The character can keep an eye out for ready sources of food and water, making a Wisdom (Survival) check when the DM calls for it. (The Dungeon Master’s Guide has rules for foraging.)

