= Tarren Fullvigor =
_Human Bard, Entertainer_
Tarren was an ... entertainer?

*Level:* [1]      *Proficiency Bonus:* [+2]

== Conditions & Characteristics ==
*Hit Points:* [Max: 8, Current: 10, Temporary: 0]      *Initiative:* +3
*Hit Dice:* [Size: d8, Max: 1, Current: 1]              *Armor Class:* 13

| ATTR | STR | DEX | CON | INT | WIS | CHA |
|-----:|----:|----:|----:|----:|----:|----:|
| STAT |   9 |  16 |  10 |  14 |  14 |  19 |
|  MOD |  -1 |  +3 |  +0 |  +2 |  +1 |  +4 |
| SAVE |     |  +2 |     |     |     |  +2 |

[ ][STR] Athletics        [-][INT] Arcana         [-][WIS] Animal Handling  [-][CHA] Deception
[ ][DEX] Acrobatics       [-][INT] History        [ ][WIS] Insight          [ ][CHA] Intimidation
[ ][DEX] Sleight of Hand  [ ][INT] Investigation  [-][WIS] Medicine         [-][CHA] Performance
[ ][DEX] Stealth          [-][INT] Nature         [ ][WIS] Perception       [-][CHA] Persuasion
                          [-][INT] Religion       [ ][WIS] Survival

== Musical Instruments ==
[-] Viol, [-] Lute, [-] Flute, [-] Pan Flute

== Weapon & Armor Training ==
Simple Weapons, Light Armor

== Languages ==
Common, Gnomish, Giant

== Features & Traits ==
*Creature Type.* [Human] Humanoid
*Size.* [Human] Small
*Speed.* [Human] 30 feet
*Life Span.* [Human] ~80 years
*Resourceful.* [Human] You gain Inspiration whenever you finish a Long Rest.

*Magic Initiate.* 2 cantrips, 1 first level spell (innate, spell slots), charisma

=== Level 1 ===
*Bardic Inspiration.*  You can supernaturally inspire others through words, music, or dance. This inspiration is represented by your Bardic Inspiration die, which is a d6.
 * *Using Bardic Inspiration.* You can use your Bardic Inspiration die in the following ways:
  * *Boost a d20 Test.* When another creature within 60 feet of you that you can see or hear fails a d20 Test, you can use your Reaction to give the creature a Bardic Inspiration die. The creature rolls that die and adds the number rolled to the d20, potentially turning the failure into a success.
  * *Heal.* Immediately after another creature within 60 feet of you that you can see or hear takes damage, you can use your Reaction to roll your Bardic Inspiration die and restore a number of Hit Points to the creature equal to the number rolled.
 * *Number of Uses.* A Bardic Inspiration die is expended when it’s rolled. You can confer a Bardic Inspiration die a number of times equal to your Proficiency Bonus, and you regain all expended uses when you finish a Long Rest.
 * *At Higher Levels.* Your Bardic Inspiration die changes when you reach certain levels in this Class, as shown in the Bardic Die column of the Bard table. The die becomes a d8 at 5th level, a d10 at 10th level, and a d12 at 15th level.
*Spellcasting.* You have learned to cast Spells through your bardic arts. See the Player’s Handbook for the rules on spellcasting. The information below details how you use those rules as a Bard.
 * *Prepared Spells.*  Whenever you finish a Long Rest, you can prepare two 0-level Spells and two 1st-level Spells of your choice. Any Spell you prepare for this Class must be an Arcane Spell, and it must be from one of the following Schools of Magic: Divination, Enchantment, Illusion, or Transmutation.
 * *At Higher Levels.*  At higher levels in this Class, you can prepare more Spells, as shown on the Bard table. The numbers there determine the number of different Spells you can prepare of each level. 
 * *Spell Slots.* The Bard table shows how many Spell Slots you have at each level to cast your Bard Spells of 1st level and higher; the number of different Spells you can prepare of each level equals the number of Spell Slots you have at that level.  
 * *Spellcasting Ability.* Charisma is your Spellcasting Ability for your Bard Spells. 
 * *Spellcasting Focus.* You can use a Musical Instrument as a Spellcasting Focus for the Spells you prepare for this Class.

== Equipment ==
*Coins:* 42 gp 2 sp 
*Gems:* None
*Items:*
| QTY | Item                     |  Cost | Weight |
|----:|--------------------------|------:|-------:|
|   1 | Leather                  | 10 gp | 10 lbs |
|   1 | Clothes, Travelers       |  2 gp |  4 lbs |
|   1 | Shortsword               | 10 gp |  2 lbs |
|   1 | Dagger                   |  2 gp |  1 lbs |
|   1 | Lute                     | 20 gp |  2 lbs |
|   1 | Flute                    | 20 gp |  1 lbs |
|   1 | Scholar's Pack           | 40 gp | 10 lbs |
|   1 | - Backpack               |     - |      - |
|   1 | - Book of Lore           |     - |      - |
|   1 | - Bottle of Ink          |     - |      - |
|   1 | - An Ink Pen             |     - |      - |
|   1 | - 10 Sheets of Parchment |     - |      - |
|   1 | - a little bag of sand   |     - |      - |
|   1 | - a small knife          |     - |      - |
|  10 | Candle                   |  1 sp |  0 lbs |
|   1 | Tinderbox                |  5 sp |  1 lbs |
|   4 | Rations                  |  2 gp |  8 lbs |
|   1 | Waterskin                |  2 sp |  5 lbs |
|   1 | Bedroll                  |  1 gp |  7 lbs |
|   1 | Mess Kit                 |  2 sp |  1 lbs |

