= Kijani =
Outwardly serene, the kijani resemble slender humanoids with a great affinity for their jungle home. Despite their mostly humanoid appearance, the kijani are plant creatures. 

Kijani are slender creatures; lithe and thin, though solidly built, with overly long limbs.  As plant creatures, their bodies are compact and heavier than their silhouette would suggest.  Their skin and hair immediately give away the truth of a kijani’s nature, as both are a rich green in color.  They are beautiful creatures, with stunning features and smooth skin. Their eyes are large and dominated by solid green pupils. Kijani move with easy grace, like saplings swaying in a warm breeze. Though they are capable of great bursts of speed and agility when needed, the plantfolk normally move sinuously. Their motions are generally deliberate and seductive, as if slowly dancing their way through life. 

== Kijani Traits ==
*Creature Type.* Plant<br>
*Size.* Medium (about 5-6 feet tall)<br>
*Speed.* 30 feet<br>
*Life Span.* 40 years on average<br>

As a Kijani, you have these special traits.
| Special Traits    | Point Value | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
|-------------------|-------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Contained Fury    | 4           | While below half your Maximum Hit Points you devolve into the fury which is the hallmark of your race.  Once per turn, when you hit with a weapon or spell attack while in your fury, you deal an extra 1d4 damage of the same type as the attack.  As a reaction, when you are hit by an attack during your fury from an attacker you can see, you can add 2 to your AC against that attack, potentially causing the attack to miss.                                 |
| Plantborn         | 2           | Though you enter a state of dormancy during Long Rests similar to the way other creatures sleep, you are Immune to any effect that would put you to sleep.  When you reach 5th level, you also gain the ability to cast the Speak With Plants Spell with this trait.  Once you cast the Spell with this trait, you can't cast that spell again until you finish a Long Rest; however, you can cast the Spell using any Spell Slots you have of the appropriate level. |
| Roots of the Past | 1           | You gain Proficiency in one Skill of your choice that your ancestors knew.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| Darkvision        | 1           | You have Darkvision with a range of 60 feet.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |

== Kijanis of Many Worlds ==
In the Southlands of the world of Midgard, the kijani originally dwelled peacefully in the dense jungle, barely noticed by other races.  This changed when they made contact with the human druids of Kush, who used the deep, initmate knowledge of the natural world and the magic that flows through it that they gained from the Kijani to summon the Green Walker, a mighty avatar of nature that ravaged and dominated the denizens of the jungle, using them like its personal playthings. The ancient kijani became the creature’s first tendril puppets. 

Those who escaped the Walker’s wrath fled to the far-off Zobanu Jungle, where they developed a boiling fury that still plagues them.  Tormented by equal parts fear and rage toward the great beast, the kijani of Midguard strive to mend themsleves by changing their nature - a plan they call the Great Change.  This plan involves convincing human and other mammalian allies to host their seedlings, allowing their young to grow feeding from the nutrients and life energy provided by their mammalian surrogates.  Slowly transforming their race. 

In other worlds, such as the world of Umia, Kijani are distrustful of mammalian sentients, and guard their lands jealously against any who haven't earned their trust and loyalty.  
