= Orc =
Orcs trace their creation to Gruumsh, the One-Eyed God, an unstoppable warrior and powerful leader. Gruumsh armed his children with certain gifts to help them thrive on worlds beset by monsters. Even when they turn their devotion to other gods, orcs retain the gifts that the One-Eyed God bestowed upon them: might, endurance, determination, and the ability to see in the dark.

Orcs are, on average, tall and broad. They have gray skin, ears that are small and slightly pointed, and prominent lower canines that resemble small tusks. Young orcs are often told about their ancestors’ ancient conflicts with elves in forests, dwarves under mountains, and invaders from evil planes of existence. Inspired by those tales, young orcs often wonder when Gruumsh will call on them to match the heroic deeds of their ancestors, and if they will prove worthy of the One-Eyed God’s grace.

== Orc Traits ==
*Creature Type.* Humanoid<br>
*Size.* Medium (about 6-7 feet tall)<br>
*Speed.* 30 feet<br>
*Life Span.* 80 years on average<br>

As a Orc, you have these special traits.
| Special Traits       | Point Value | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
|----------------------|:-----------:|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Relentless Endurance |      3      | When you are reduced to 0 Hit Points but not killed outright, you can drop to 1 Hit Point instead.  Once you use this trait, you can't do so again until you finish a Long Rest.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| Adrenaline Rush      |      2      | You can take the Dash Action as a Bonus Action.  When you do so, you gain a number of Temporary Hit Points equal to your Proficiency Bonus.<br> You can use this trait a number of times equal to your Proficiency Bonus, and you regain all expended uses when you finish a Long Rest. |
| Powerful Build       |      2      | You count as one Size larger when determining your carrying capacity and the weight you can push, drag, and lift.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| Darkvision           |      1      | You have Darkvision with a range of 60 feet.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |

== Orcs of Many Worlds ==
On many worlds, orcs occupy territory claimed by their ancestors. Their settlements and strongholds can be found almost anywhere, above ground and below.

Orcs sometimes flock to the banners of powerful monarchs. King Obould Many-Arrows of Toril (the world of the Forgotten Realms setting) is one such figure, his strength tempered by a willingness to make peace with his enemies.

On worlds such as Eberron, orcs were among those who defended the natural order from the encroachments of Fiends and other extraplanar threats. Their descendants learned to live in harmony with their neighbors and the natural world, and to many of them, Gruumsh’s wars are distant memories.
