= Piney =
Great, magical forests cover large portions of worlds all throughout the mundane plane, transforming the maleable humans who live there into something more plant than animal.  Thus are the Piney created.  These strange beings are followers of a strict code known to outsides as "the old ways", though the pineys themselves do not refer to it as such.  For them, the rules of the forest are as natural as the leaves growing on the boughs above.

On occasion, a piney leaves the limits of its forest.  This may be a personal choice or due to banishment as a result of breaking their code.  These wanderers and cast-outs soon lose the extreme features of their kind, reverting to a more human form.  However, the magic of the great forest still courses through their blood, manifesting in strange and sometimes dreadful ways.

Their too-long limbs and blank, inchoate eyes suggest a fey influence, but their kind is also known for strange, plant-like qualities to their skin, hair, and nails. Your piney character may have one or more of the following characteristics which mark them as a piney, whch they may or may choose to hide or disguise:
 * Your skin is rough with harmless cracks resembling tree bark.
 * Heavily-perfumed flowers grow wherever your body hair is dense.  They can be plucked, but they grow back in a few days.
 * Your eyes are twice as large as a human's, and their color is a changing swirl of green and brown.
 * Your finger and toe nails are wood.
 * Your major joints (shoulder, hip, knee) creak like tree branches when you move. 

Pineys do not recognize gender and are utterly unconcerned with prescriptive roles based on arbitrary physical characteristics.  When a piney wishes to reproduce, the magic of the forest allows them to alter their form as required to ensure success.

== Piney Traits ==
*Creature Type.* Humanoid, Plant<br>
*Size.* Medium (about 4-8 feet tall) or Small (about 2-4 feet tall), chosen when you select this Ancestry<br>
*Speed.* 30 feet<br>
*Life Span.* 80 years on average<br>

As a Piney, you have these ancestral traits.
| Piney Traits             | Point Value | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
|--------------------------|:-----------:|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Mark of the Great Forest |      3      | You can meet your daily nutritional requirements either by consuming a suitable amount of food or by staning in direct sunlight for 30 minutes.  In addition, you are Resistant to Poison Damage and have Advantage on Saving Throws you make to avoid or end the [[../Conditions#Poisoned|Poisoned]] Condition. |
| Roots                    |      2      | You are Proficient in the Nature and Survival skills.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| Resourceful              |      2      | You gain Inspiration whenever you finish a Long Rest.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| Darkvision               |      1      | You have Darkvision out to a range of 60 feet.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |

== Pineys of Many Worlds ==
In the world of Midguard, Pineys refuse to worship the divine, and those who are caught doing so are swiftly banished from their villages.  While in the world of Sibia, pineys are prolific worshipers of the Forest Queen, Mielikki.

