= Tiefling =
Tieflings are either born in the Lower Planes or have one or more fiendish ancestors who originated there. A tiefling (pronounced TEEFling) is linked by blood to a devil, a demon, a yugoloth, or some other Fiend. This connection to the Lower Planes is, for better or worse, the tiefling’s fiendish legacy, which comes with the promise of power yet has no effect on the tiefling’s moral outlook.

A tiefling chooses whether to embrace or lament their fiendish legacy. The three legacies are as follows:

*Abyssal.* The heartless entropy of the Abyss, the howling chaos of Pandemonium, and the vast despair of Carceri call to tieflings who have the Abyssal fiendish legacy. Horns, fur, tusks, black blood, and peculiar odors are common physical features of such tieflings, most of whom have the blood of demons coursing through their veins.

*Chthonic.* Tieflings who have the Chthonic fiendish legacy not only feel the tug of Carceri but also the greed of Gehenna and the underworld gloom of Hades. Some of these tieflings look cadaverous. Others possess the unearthly beauty of an incubus or a succubus, or they have physical features in common with a night hag, a yugoloth, or some other Neutral Evil fiendish ancestor.

*Infernal.* The Infernal fiendish legacy binds tieflings by blood not only to Gehenna but also the raging battlefields of Acheron and the diabolical Nine Hells. Horns, spines, tails, golden eyes, and a faint odor of sulfur or smoke are common physical features of such tieflings, most of whom trace their ancestry to devils.

== Tiefling Traits ==
*Creature Type.* Humanoid, Fiend<br>
*Size.* Medium (about 4-7 feet tall) or Small (about 3-4 feet tall), chosen when you select this Race<br>
*Speed.* 30 feet<br>
*Life Span.* 100 years on average<br>

As an Tiefling, you have these special traits.
| Tiefling Trait       | Point Value | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
|----------------------|:-----------:|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Fiendish Legacy      |      4      | Choose a legacy from the Fiendish Legacies table.  At 1st level, you gain Resistance to the specified Damage Type and you know the specified cantrip.  At 3rd level and again at 5th level, you gain the ability to cast a higher-level Spell with this trait, as shown on the table. Once you cast the Spell with this trait, you can't cast that Spell with it again until you finish a Long Rest; however, you can cast the Spell using any Spell Slots you have of appropriate level.<br> Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma is your spellcasting ability for the Spells you cast with this trait (choose the ability when you select the legacy).  |
| Otherworldy Presence |      3      | You know the Thaumaturgy cantrip.  When you cast it with this trait, the Spell uses the same spellcasting ability you use for your Fiendish Legacy trait.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| Darkvision           |      1      | You have Darkvision with a range of 60 feet.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |

| Legacy   | Alignment    | Damage Type | Cantrip      | 3rd Level       | 5th Level           |
|----------|--------------|-------------|--------------|-----------------|---------------------|
| Abyssal  | Chaotic Evil | Poison      | Poison Spray | Ray of Sickness | Hold Person         |
| Chthonic | Neutral Evil | Necrotic    | Chill Touch  | False Life      | Ray of Enfeeblement |
| Infernal | Lawful Evil  | Fire        | Fire Bolt    | Hellish Rebuke  | Darkness            |

== Tieflings of Many Worlds ==
Tieflings born in the Lower Planes often migrate to other planes of existence and never look back. Their descendants are scattered across many worlds and are especially prevalent in Sigil, the torus-shaped city at the center of the multiverse.

The earliest tieflings joined ranks with nontieflings to repel fiendish incursions on many worlds, earning the trust of those who might otherwise have mistaken them for Fiends. Thanks to the victories and sacrifices of these legends, tieflings throughout the multiverse enjoy widespread acceptance.
