= Conditions =
Conditions alter the properties of a creature or area and can change a creature's capabilities in a variety of ways.  They can arise as a natural environmental effect, the result of a spell, class feature, attack, or other effect.  Most conditions are impairments, but some can be advantageous.  

A condition lasts either until it is countered or for a duration specified by the effect that imposed the condtition.  The Prone condition, for instance, can be countered by standing up, while the Invisible condition may end when a creature attacks or casts a spell (Invisibility spell) or after a specified duration (Greater Invisibility spell).

If multiple effects impose the same condition on a creature, each instance of the condition has its own duration, but the condition's effects do not get worse.  A creature either has a condition or it does not.

The following definitions specify what happens to a creature while it is subjected ot a condition.

== Absent-Minded ==
A creature that is Absent-Minded is unable to maintain Concentration.

== Advantaged ==
An Advantaged creature has Advantage on all D20 Tests.

== Blinded ==
A Blinded creature's method of sight has been blocked or eliminated. Until its sight is restored, the creature is [[#Disabled|Disabled]](Sight), [[#Unsteady|Unsteady]], and [[#Vulnerable|Vulnerable]].

== Braced ==
Other creatures have Disadvantage on Attack Rolls against a creature that is Braced.

== Charmed ==
A Charmed creature considers its charmer to be a close friend and ally, and is [[#Susceptible|Susceptible]] during social interactions with their charmer.  The creature cannot attack the charmer, target it with harmful effects, or include it in harmful areas of effect.

== Confounded ==
A creature that is Confounded can speak only falteringly and can't cast spells that require verbal components.

== Deafened ==
This creature's method of hearing has been disabled.  It becomes [[#Disabled|Disabled]](Hearing) until its hearing is restored.

== Debilitated ==
The creature automatically fails Strength and Dexterity Saving Throws.

== Disabled ==
A disabled creature automatically fails Ability Checks.  A creature is usually only disabled on specific checks.  For instance, A Blinded creature is Diabled (Sight), meaning they automatically fail checks that require sight.

== Disadvantaged ==
A Disadvantaged creature has Disadvantage on all D20 Tests.

== Disarmed ==
A disarmed creature drops whatever it is holding that is not being worn.

== Drained ==
Hit Point Maximum is halved for a creature that is Drained.

== Enabled ==
An Enabled creature has Advantage on Ability Checks.

== Exhaustion ==
Some special abilities and environmental hazards, such as starvation and the long-term effects of freezing or scorching temperature, can lead to being exhausted.  Exhaustion is measured in 6 levels.  An effect can give a creature one or more levels of Exhaustion.  Gaining Exhaustion while already Exhausted causes the Exhaustion level to increase by the number of levels gained.  Long Rest reduces exhaustion by one level.

 * *Exhausted I.* A creature with one level of Exhaustion is [[#Impaired|Impaired]].
 * *Exhausted II.* A creature with two levels of Exhaustion is [[#Impaired|Impaired]] and [[#Hindered|Hindered]].
 * *Exhausted III.* A character with three levels of Exhaustion is [[#Disadvantaged|Disadvantaged]] and [[#Hindered|Hindered]].
 * *Exhausted IV.* A character with four levels of Exhaustion is [[#Disadvantaged|Disadvantaged]], [[#Hindered|Hindered]], and [[#Drained|Drained]].
 * *Exhausted V.* A character with five levels of Exhaustion is [[#Disadvantaged|Disadvantaged]], [[#Immobile|Immobile]], and [[#Drained|Drained]].
 * *Exhausted VI.* A character with six levels of Exhaustion is Dead

== Fragile ==
Any attack that hits the creature is a Critical Hit if its attacker is within 5 feet of it.

== Frightened ==
This creature has been Frightened by another creature or by a magical effect.  A Frightened creature is [[#Impaired|Impaired]] while the source of its fear is within line of sight, and cannot move closer to the source of its fear.

== Grappled ==
While a creature is Grappled, it becomes [[#Immobile|Immobile]], and [[#Unsteady|Unsteady]] except against its grappler.  The grappler can move the grappled creature by dragging or carrying it, but the Grappler becomes [[#Slowed|Slowed]] while moving unless the grappled creature is two or more sizes smaller than the grappler.  A grappled creature can make a Dexterity or Strength saving throw against the grapple's escape DC at the end of each of its turns, ending the condition on itself on a success.  The Condition also ends if the grappler is Incapacitated or if something moves the grappled creature outside the grappler's range without using its Speed.

== Hidden ==
A creature that is Hidden is using magic or skill to make themselves hard to detect.  Hidden creatures make little noise, leave only the faintest tracks and mask their odors to make themselves as hard as possible to locate.  A creature does not know the location of any creature that is Hidden from them.  A creature who cannot be located cannot be directly targeted by an attack, ability or spell, though an attacker can guess at a location and target a space, making an attack as if [[#Blinded|Blinded]].  If they hit, they learn the location of the hidden creature.  If they miss, or target a space the hidden creature doesn't occupy, they only discover that they missed.  A creature may spend an action to attempt an appropriate Ability Check, usually a Wisdom (Perception) check, to locate a hidden creature.  A Hidden creature is [[#Braced|Braced]] and [[#Steady|Steady]] against creatures it is hidden from.

== Hindered ==
A hindered creature finds it difficult to move.  It must spend 1 extra foot of movement for every foot it moves using its Speed.   Note that multiple effects may cause a creature to become Hindered.  These effects will stack together, increasing the cost of movement, but two effects with the same name cannot stack.  Thus, Difficult Terrain can stack with Slowed, but cannot stack with itself.  For example, when you walk normally, every foot you move costs you 1 foot of movement.  If you drop Prone and crawl, every foot now costs 2 foot of movement.  If you crawl through Difficult Terrain, every foot now costs 3 foot of movement.

== Immobile ==
An Immobile creature's Speed becomes 0 and cannot change.

== Immune ==
This creature is Immune to all Damage Types and Conditions.  A creature is most often Immune to a specific Damage Type or Condition. For example, a creature that is Immune(Poison) is immune to the Poison Damage Type, while one that is Immune(Poison, Poisoned) is Immune to both the Poison Damage Type and the Poisoned Condition.

== Impaired ==
An Impaired creature has Disadvantage on Ability Checks.

== Inactive ==
The creature cannot take Actions or Reactions.  Actions include Bonus Actions and Free Object Interactions.

== Incapacitated ==
While a creature is Incapacitated, it becomes [[#Inactive|Inactive]], [[#Mute|Mute]], and [[#Absent-Minded|Absent Minded]].  A creature is also [[#Impaired|Impaired]](Initiative) when they roll Initiative while Incapacitated.

== Invisible ==
A creature that is Invisible is impossible to see without the aid of magic or a special sense, though it can still be located by the noise or odors it emits, or tracks it leaves behind. An invisible creature is [[#Obscured, Heavily|Heavily Obscured]], [[#Braced|Braced]], and [[#Steady|Steady]].

== Mute ==
A creature that is Mute cannot speak, and therefore cannot communicate verbally or cast spells with verbal components.

== Obscured, Heavily  ==
In a Heavily Obscured area, such as darkness, opaque fog, or dense foliage, vision is blocked entirely.  Since you can't hide from a creature that can see you clearly, being Heavily Obscured is important for Stealth.  A creature is effectively [[#Blinded|Blinded]] when trying to see something in this area.

== Obscured, Lightly ==
A Lightly Obscured area, such as dim light, patchy fog, or moderate foliage, makes it harder to see.  Any creature trying to see in a Lightly Obscured area is [[#Disabled|Disabled]](Sight).

== Paralyzed ==
A Paralyzed creature is [[#Incapacitated|Incapacitated]], [[#Immobile|Immobile]], [[#Mute|Mute]], [[#Debilitated|Debilitated]], [[#Vulnerable|Vulnerable]], and [[#Fragile|Fragile]].

== Petrified ==
A Petrified creature is transformed, along with any nonmagical objects it is wearing or carrying, into a solid mass of stone.  Its weight increases by a factor of ten, and it ceases aging.  Any poison or disease already in the creature's system when it is Petrified is suspended, not neutralized.  While petrified, a creature is [[#Incapacitated|Incapacitated]], [[#Immobile|Immobile]], [[#Mute|Mute]], [[#Unaware|Unaware]], [[#Vulnerable|Vulnerable]], [[#Debilitated|Debilitated]], [[#Resistant|Resistant]], and [[#Immune|Immune]](Poison, Poisoned, Disease).  

== Poisoned ==
A Poisoned creature is [[#Impaired|Impaired]] and [[#Unsteady|Unsteady]]

== Prepared ==
A Prepared creature has Advantage on Saving Throws.

== Prone ==
A Prone creature is lying on the ground. If it was above the ground when it was knocked prone, if it was flying for example, then it will fall and take damage unless it can hover.  A Prone creature's only movement option is to crawl unless it chooses to spend 15 foot of movement to stand up, thus ending the Prone condition.  
While Prone, a creature is [[#Unsteady|Unsteady]], [[#Vulnerable|Vulnerable]] to creatures above or within 5 feet of it, and [[#Braced|Braced]] against everyone else.

== Resistant ==
The creature has Resistance to all Damage Types and Conditions.  A creature is most often resistant to a specific Damage Type or Condition, for example a creature who is Resistant(Poison) is only resistant to Poison damage, while one who is Resistant(Poison,Poisoned) is resistant to both Poison Damage and the Poisoned Condition.

== Restrained ==
A Restrained creature is [[#Immobile|Immobile]], [[#Vulnerable|Vulnerable]], [[#Unsteady|Unsteady]], [[#Unprepared|Unprepared]](Dexterity)

== Slowed ==
A Slowed creature is [[#Hindered|Hindered]], [[#Vulnerable|Vulnerable]], and [[#Unprepared|Unprepared]](Dexterity)

== Steady ==
A Steady creature has Advantage on Attack Rolls.

== Stunned ==
A stunned creature is [[#Incapacitated|Incapacitated]], [[#Immobile|Immobile]], [[#Confounded|Confounded]], [[#Debilitated|Debilitated]], [[#Vulnerable|Vulnerable]]

== Susceptible ==
Other creatures have Advantage on Ability Checks against the creature.  A creature is usually only Susceptible to a specific creature or situation.  For instance, a [[#Charmed|Charmed]] creature is Susceptible(Charmer, Social), meaning they are susceptible to their charmer against social checks.

== Unaware ==
The creature is unaware of its surroundings.  It cannot observe or interact with the world, and automatically fails any check to do so.

== Unconscious ==
An Unconscious creature is [[#Incapacitated|Incapacitated]], [[#Immobile|Immobile]], [[#Mute|Mute]], [[#Unaware|Unaware]], [[#Disarmed|Disarmed]], [[#Prone|Prone]], [[#Debilitated|Debilitated]], [[#Vulnerable|Vulnerable]], and [[#Fragile|Fragile]]

== Unprepared ==
An Unprepared creature has Disadvantage on Saving Throws.  This condition can be qualified.  For example, Unprepared(Dexterity) means that the creature has Disadvantage on Dexterity Saving Throws only.

== Unsteady ==
An Unsteady creature has Disadvantage on Attack Rolls.

== Vulnerable ==
When a creature is Vulnerable, Attack Rolls against it have Advantage.

