= Movement =
Speed fuels a character's movement, determining how far your character can move when Adventuring and Fighting.  A creature's Speed is the distance in feet that it can walk in 1 round (6 seconds).  This number assumes short bursts of energetic movement in the midst of a life-threatening situation.  A creature may have multiple movement types, described below.

On its turn, a creature can move a distance up to its speed, using as much or as little of its speed as it likes.  However you are moving, you deduct the distance of each part of your move from your speed until it is used up or until you are done moving.  

A creature can break up its movement on its turn, using some of its speed before and after its actions.  If it has a feature like mulitattack or extra attack, or makes more than one attack roll with a spell, it can move between attacks as well.

If a creature has more than one speed, such as a walking speed and a flying speed, it can switch back and forth between speeds during its move.  When doing so, subtract the distance it has already moved from the new speed.  The result determines how much farther you can move.  If the result is 0 or less, you cannot use the new speed during the move.  

For example, a creature has a speed of Walk 30, Fly 60.  It starts its turn and flies 20 feet, then walks 10 feet.  It has moved a total of 30 feet and so cannot walk any further, but it can fly another 30 feet.

Types of movement are described below.

 * *Walk* - A creature's Walking speed determines how many feet it can move on its legs, tentacles, or other mobile appendages.  This speed limits the distance you can travel in a turn and can include jumping, climbing, and swimming movement.  Your Jump distance is limited by your strength, and if when Crawl, Climb or Swim using your Walk speed you are [[Conditions#Hindered|Hindered]].
 * *Swim* - A creature with a swimming speed has a natural ability to swim.  A creature's Swim speed is the number of feet that it can move through liquid in one round.
 * *Climb* - A creature with a climbing speed has a natural climbing ability.  A creature's Climb speed is the number of feet that it can move verticaly up walls, trees, cliffs, etc.  Some creatures, such as spiders, can seemingly defy gravity as they crawl across difficult terrain or the ceiling.  If a creature has this ability, it will be denoted as Climb (Cling).
 * *Fly* - A creature with a flying speed has wings, magic, or some other property which allows it to fly.  A creature's Fly speed is the number of feet that it can move through the air.  If a flying creature is knocked Prone, becomes [[Conditions#Immobile|Immobile]], or is otherwise deprived of the ability to move, the creature falls, unless it has the ability to Hover or is held aloft by magic, such as by the [[Spells#Fly|Fly]] spell.
 * *Burrow* - A creature with a burrowing speed has the ability to travel through the very earth.  A creature's Burrow speed is the number of feet it can move through the ground.

At the DMs discretion, climbing a vertical surface that is slippery or has few handholds, or gaining any distance in rough water might require a successful Strength (Athletics) check.

== Jumping ==
Your Strength determines how far you can jump.

=== Long Jump ===
When you make a long jump, you cover a number of feet up to your Strength score if you move at least 10 feet on foot immediately before the jump. When you make a standing long jump, you can leap only half that distance. Either way, each foot you clear on the jump costs a foot of movement.

This rule assumes that the height of your jump doesn't matter, such as a jump across a stream or chasm. At your DM's option, you must succeed on a DC 10 Strength (Athletics) or Dexterity (Acrobatics) check (DMs choice) to clear a low obstacle (no taller than a quarter of the jump's distance), such as a hedge or low wall. Otherwise, you hit it.

When you land in difficult terrain, you must succeed on a DC 10 Dexterity (Acrobatics) check to land on your feet. Otherwise, you land prone.

=== High Jump ===
When you make a high jump, you leap into the air a number of feet equal to 3 + your Strength modifier (minimum of 0 feet) if you move at least 10 feet on foot immediately before the jump. When you make a standing high jump, you can jump only half that distance. Either way, each foot you clear on the jump costs a foot of movement. In some circumstances, your DM might allow you to make a Strength (Athletics) check to jump higher than you normally can.

You can extend your arms half your height above yourself during the jump. Thus, you can reach above you a distance equal to the height of the jump plus 1 1/2 times your height.

== Difficult Terrain ==
A creature moving through Difficult Terrain is [[Conditions#Hindered|Hindered]].  This is true even if multiple things in a space count as difficult terrain.  Some examples of difficult terrain are Low furniture, rubble, undergrowth, steep stairs, snow, shallow bogs, poisonous fumes, and the space of another creature (whether hostile or not).  Note that other movement effects stack with difficult terrain, so using your Speed to Crawl through difficult terrain will cost 2 feet of movement for every 1 foot gained, and doing so while Slowed will cost 3 feet of movement for every 1 foot moved.

== Being Prone ==
Combatants often find themselves lying on the ground, either because they are knocked down or because they throw themselves down. In the game, they are [[Conditions#Prone|Prone]]. You can drop Prone without using any of your speed. Standing up from Prone costs 15 feet of movement.  You can't stand up if you don't have enough movement left or if your speed is 0.

To move while Prone, you must Crawl or use magic such as teleportation.

== Moving Around Other Creatures ==
You can move through the space of a non-hostile creature.  In contrast, you can move through the space of a hostile creature only if that creature is two sizes larger or smaller than you.  Remember that any other creature's space is difficult terrain for you, whether hostile, non-hostile, alive, incapacitated, unconscious, or dead.  Whether a creature is friendly or hostile, you cannot willingly end your movement in its space.

If a creature is Mountable, it costs 15 feet of movement to mount the creature, at which point they may occupy the same space.

An effect may throw you into another creature's space against your will.  If this happens, both creatures are knocked [[Conditions#Prone|Prone]].

== Travel Pace ==
The following rules determine how far a creature can move in a minute, an hour, or a day.

=== Travel Pace Table ===
| Pace   | Minute   | Hour    | Day      | Effect                                           |
|--------|----------|---------|----------|--------------------------------------------------|
| Fast   | 400 feet | 4 miles | 30 miles | -5 penalty to passive Wisdom (Perception) scores |
| Normal | 300 feet | 3 miles | 24 miles | -                                                |
| Slow   | 200 feet | 2 miles | 18 miles | Able to use Stealth                              |

While traveling, a group of adventurers can move at a normal, fast, or slow pace, as shown on the Travel Pace table.  The table states how far the party can move in a period of time and whether the pace has any effect.  A fast pace makes characters less perceptive, while a slow pace makes it possible to sneak around and to search an area more carefully.  

The travel speeds given in the Travel Pace Table assume relatively simple terrain: roads, open plains, or clear dungeon corridors.  But adventurers often face dense forests, deep swamps, rubble-filled ruins, steep mountains, and ice-covered ground - all considered [[#Difficult Terrain|Difficult Terrain]], halving the distance you can travel in these environments.

=== Forced March ===
The Travel Pace table assumes that characters travel for 8 hours in a day.  They can push on beyond that limit, at the risk of Exhaustion.

For each additional hour of travel beyond 8 hours, the characters cover the distance shown in the Hour column for their pace, and each character must make a Constitution saving throw at the end of the hour.  The DC is 10 + 1 for each hour past 8 hours.  On a failed save, a character suffers one level of [[Conditions#Exhaustion|Exhaustion]].

=== Mounts & Vehicles ===
For short spans of time (up to an hour), many animals move much faster than humanoids. A mounted character can ride at a gallop for about an hour, covering twice the usual distance for a fast pace. If fresh mounts are available every 8 to 10 miles, characters can cover larger distances at this pace, but this is very rare except in densely populated areas.

Characters in wagons, carriages, or other land vehicles choose a pace as normal. Characters in a waterborne vessel are limited to the speed of the vessel (see [[Equipment]]), and they don't suffer penalties for a fast pace or gain benefits from a slow pace. Depending on the vessel and the size of the crew, ships might be able to travel for up to 24 hours per day.

Certain special mounts, such as a pegasus or griffon, or special vehicles, such as a carpet of flying, allow you to travel more swiftly. The Dungeon Master’s Guide contains more information on special methods of travel.

== Activity while Traveling ==
As adventurers travel through a dungeon or the wilderness, they need to remain alert for danger, and some characters might perform other tasks to help the group’s journey.

=== Marching Order ===
The adventurers should establish a marching order. A marching order makes it easier to determine which characters are affected by traps, which ones can spot hidden enemies, and which ones are the closest to those enemies when a fight breaks out.

A character might occupy the front rank, one or more middle ranks, or the back rank. Characters in the front and back ranks need enough room to travel side by side with others in their rank. When space is too tight, the marching order must change, usually by moving characters to a middle rank.

Fewer Than Three Ranks. If an adventuring party arranges its marching order with only two ranks, they are a front rank and a back rank. If there’s only one rank, it’s considered a front rank.

=== Stealth ===
While traveling at a slow pace, the characters can move stealthily. As long as they’re not in the open, they can try to surprise or sneak by other creatures they encounter. See the rules for hiding in chapter 7 "Using Ability Scores."

=== Splitting Up The Party ===
Sometimes, it makes sense to split an adventuring party, especially if you want one or more characters to scout ahead. You can form multiple parties, each moving at a different speed. Each group has its own front, middle, and back ranks.

The drawback to this approach is that the party will be split into several smaller groups in the event of an attack. The advantage is that a small group of stealthy characters moving slowly might be able to sneak past enemies that clumsier characters would alert. A rogue and a monk moving at a slow pace are much harder to detect when they leave their dwarf fighter friend behind.

=== Noticing Threats ===
Use the passive Wisdom (Perception) scores of the characters to determine whether anyone in the group notices a hidden threat. The DM might decide that a threat can be noticed only by characters in a particular rank. For example, as the characters are exploring a maze of tunnels, the DM might decide that only those characters in the back rank have a chance to hear or spot a stealthy creature following the group, while characters in the front and middle ranks cannot.

While traveling at a fast pace, characters take a –5 penalty to their passive Wisdom (Perception) scores to notice hidden threats.

*Encountering Creatures.* If the DM determines that the adventurers encounter other creatures while they’re traveling, it’s up to both groups to decide what happens next. Either group might decide to attack, initiate a conversation, run away, or wait to see what the other group does.

*Surprising Foes.* If the adventurers encounter a hostile creature or group, the DM determines whether the adventurers or their foes might be surprised when combat erupts. See chapter 9 for more about surprise.

=== Other Activities ===
Characters who turn their attention to other tasks as the group travels are not focused on watching for danger. These characters don’t contribute their passive Wisdom (Perception) scores to the group’s chance of noticing hidden threats. However, a character not watching for danger can do one of the following activities instead, or some other activity with the DM’s permission.

*Navigate.* The character can try to prevent the group from becoming lost, making a Wisdom (Survival) check when the DM calls for it. (The Dungeon Master’s Guide has rules to determine whether the group gets lost.)

*Draw a Map.* The character can draw a map that records the group’s progress and helps the characters get back on course if they get lost. No ability check is required.

*Track.* A character can follow the tracks of another creature, making a Wisdom (Survival) check when the DM calls for it. (The Dungeon Master’s Guide has rules for tracking.)

*Forage.* The character can keep an eye out for ready sources of food and water, making a Wisdom (Survival) check when the DM calls for it. (The Dungeon Master’s Guide has rules for foraging.)

