= Revised Classes =
You take a class feat which grants you one or more game tags, your class defining proficiencies, a class resource, a number of class features which consume your resource, and 2 more options of your choice from the given selections.  You also gain a purse of coins which you can use to buy starting equipment.

== Barbarian ==
Class Goals: Single Target Melee, High Strength Damage; Damage Sponge
Tags: Barbarian, Warrior
Proficiencies: Light Armor, Medium Armor, Shields, Simple Weapons, Martial Weapons, Strength Saving Throws, Constitution Saving Throws, and two skills from Animal Handling, Athletics, Intimidation, Nature, Perception, and Survival.
Purse: 100 gp
Feats: The following feats are added to your character advancement pool.  You must take the Rage feat and one additional feat at this time.  

=== Rage ===
You have a Rage [[../resource-die|Resource Die]] which starts as a 1d4.  As you grow in power as a Barbarian, your Resource Die will grow with you, and you will gain other abilities that utilize your Rage Resource Die as well.  Your Rage Resource Die increases at levels 5 (1d6), 9 (1d8), 13 (1d10), 17(1d12). 
You can use your Rage Resource Die to perform the following actions so long as you aren't wearing heavy armor.  You will gain more features that consume your resource as you advance in this class.
 * *Raging Blows.* When you take the Attack Action on your turn and hit with a Weapon Attack that uses your Strength, you can roll the Resource Die and add the result to your weapon damage.  
 * *Raging Strength.* When you make a d20 Test involving Strength, you can roll your Resource Die and add the result to your d20 Test.
 * *Raging Resistance.* Until you have exhausted your Rage, you are resistant to Bludgeoning, Piercing, and Slashing damage.  When you are damaged by an attack that deals Bludgeoning, Piercing, or Slashing damage, you may attempt to reduce that damage further.  As a reaction, roll your Rage Resource Die and subtract the result from the resisted damage of the triggering attack.

=== Unarmored Defense ===
Requires: Barbarian
While you are not wearing armor, your Armor Class equals 10 + your Dexterity Modifier + your Constitution Modifier.  You can use a shield and still gain this benefit, since a shield counts as cover, not as armor.

=== Reckless Attack ===
Requires: Barbarian
You can throw aside all concern for defense to attack with fierce desperation.  When you make your first attack on your turn, you can decide to attack recklessly.  Doing so gives you advantage on melee weapon attack rolls using Strength during this turn, but attack rolls against you have advantage until your next turn.

=== Danger Sense ===
Requires: Barbarian
You gain an uncanny sense of when things nearby aren't as they should be, giving you an edge when you dodge away from danger.  You have advantage on Dexterity saving throws against effects that you can see, such as traps and spells.  To gain this benefit, you cannot be Blinded, Deafened, or Incapacitated.




= Barbarian =
When people think of Barbarians, they tend to think of big, dumb, lumps of muscle wielding great weapons and rushing heedlessly into combat.  And not without reason; there are certainly plenty of lunkheads that would rather rush to their death than be called cowardly.  But to be a barbarian - to be a True Barbarian - they must harness an ancient Primal magic, condense it into a Rage so great it threatens to consume them, and wield it against their enemies. 

== Creating a Barbarian ==
When you create your Barbarian character, think about where they come from.  Is your Barbarian from the wild outlands or do they make their living in the heart of the city?  Are you a soldier returning home from a great war?  Maybe you are a slave, raised from birth to fight in the gladiator's pits?  When you build your Barbarian, you should put your highest Ability Scores into Strength and Constitution.  

== Multiclassing ==
You can take any class you want at 1st level, whether you qualify for it or not.  But in order to take levels in a different class, you must qualify for both your original class and the class you wish to take a level in. 

To multiclass as a Barbarian, you must have a Strength Score of at least 13.

== The Barbarian Table ==
| Level | Proficiency Bonus | Features                      | Rage Die |
|:-----:|:-----------------:|-------------------------------|:--------:|
|  1st  |        +2         | Rage, Unarmored Defense       |   1d4    |
|  2nd  |        +2         | Reckless Attack, Danger Sense |   1d4    |
|  3rd  |        +2         | Primal Path                   |   1d4    |
|  4th  |        +2         |                               |   1d4    |
|  5th  |        +3         |                               |   1d6    |
|  6th  |        +3         | Path Feature                  |   1d6    |
|  7th  |        +3         |                               |   1d6    |
|  8th  |        +3         |                               |   1d6    |
|  9th  |        +4         |                               |   1d8    |
| 10th  |        +4         | Path Feature                  |   1d8    |
| 11th  |        +4         |                               |   1d8    |
| 12th  |        +4         |                               |   1d8    |
| 13th  |        +5         |                               |   1d10   |
| 14th  |        +5         | Path Feature                  |   1d10   |
| 15th  |        +5         |                               |   1d10   |
| 16th  |        +5         |                               |   1d10   |
| 17th  |        +6         |                               |   1d12   |
| 18th  |        +6         |                               |   1d12   |
| 19th  |        +6         |                               |   1d12   |
| 20th  |        +6         |                               |   1d12   |

== Class Features ==
You gain the following features when you take up the Barbarian Class.

=== Hit Points ===
*Hit Dice:* 1d12 per Barbarian level
*Hit Points at 1st Level:* 12 + Constitution modifier
*Hit Points at Higher Levels:* 1d12 (7) + your Constitution Modifier per Barbarian level after 1st.

=== Proficiencies ===
Armor: Light, Medium, Shields
Weapons: Simple, Martial
Tools: None
Saving Throws: Strength, Constitution
Skills: Choose 2 from Animal Handling, Athletics, Intimidation, Nature, Perception, and Survival

=== Equipment ===
You start with your choice of 200 gold or your choices from the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background.

 * a greataxe         or any martial melee weapon
 * two handaxes       or any simple weapon
 * an explorer's pack and four javelins

=== Rage ===
*Level:* 1
You have a Rage [[../resource-die|Resource Die]] which starts as a 1d4.  As you grow in power as a Barbarian, your Resource Die will grow with you, and you will gain other abilities that utilize your Rage Resource Die as well.

You can use your Rage Resource Die to perform the following actions so long as you aren't wearing heavy armor.

 * *Raging Blows.* When you take the Attack Action on your turn and hit with a Weapon Attack that uses your Strength, you can roll the Resource Die and add the result to your weapon damage.  
 * *Raging Strength.* When you make a d20 Test involving Strength, you can roll your Resource Die and add the result to your d20 Test.
 * *Raging Resistance.* As a reaction, which you take when you are hit by an Attack that deals Physical (Bludgeoning, Piercing, and/or Slashing) Damage, you can give yourself resistance Physical damage until the start of your next turn.  Roll your Rage Resource Die and subtract the result from the resisted damage of the triggering attack.

=== Unarmored Defense ===
*Level:* 1
While you are not wearing any armor, your Armor Class equals 10 + your Dexterity Modifier + your Constitution modifier.  You can use a shield and still gain this benefit.

=== Reckless Attack ===
*Level:* 2
When you make your first attack on your turn, you can decide to attack recklessly. Doing so gives you advantage on melee weapon attack rolls using Strength during this turn, but attack rolls against you have advantage until your next turn.

=== Danger Sense ===
*Level:* 2
You have advantage on Dexterity saving throws against effects that you can percieve, such as traps and spells, so long as you aren't [[../conditions#Blinded|Blinded]], [[../conditions#Deafened|Deafened]], or [[../conditions#Incapacitated|Incapacitated]].  If you succeed on the saving throw, you can roll your Rage Resource Die and subtract the result from the damage you take from the triggering effect.

