= Monk =
While Wizards, Clerics, Druids, and the like focus on manipulating the energies outside the body, Monks focus inward, to the energies flowing within each individual, to an energy they call ki.  Monks can enhance their own ki to power the speed and power of their attacks or they can hinder or block an opponent's ki, rendering them weaker or even powerless.  Monks can use this energy to create their own forms of magic without casting a single spell.

== Creating a Monk ==
When you create your Monk character, think about where they come from.  Most monks were raised in a monastery, but maybe your Monk came by their knowledge on their own or via an accident. Perhaps you were discovered and guided by a wandering monk.

When you build your Monk, you should put your highest Ability Scores into Dexterity and Wisdom.

== Multiclassing ==
You can take any class you want at 1st level, whether you qualify for it or not.  But in order to take levels in a different class, you must qualify for both your original class and the class you wish to take a level in. 

To multiclass as a Monk, your Dexterity Score and Wisdom Score must both be at least 13.

== The Monk Table ==
| Level | Proficiency Bonus | Features                        | Martial Arts Die |
|:-----:|:-----------------:|---------------------------------|:----------------:|
|  1st  |        +2         | Martial Arts, Unarmored Defense |       1d4        |
|  2nd  |        +2         |                                 |       1d4        |
|  3rd  |        +2         |                                 |       1d4        |
|  4th  |        +2         |                                 |       1d4        |
|  5th  |        +3         |                                 |       1d6        |
|  6th  |        +3         |                                 |       1d6        |
|  7th  |        +3         |                                 |       1d6        |
|  8th  |        +3         |                                 |       1d6        |
|  9th  |        +4         |                                 |       1d8        |
| 10th  |        +4         |                                 |       1d8        |
| 11th  |        +4         |                                 |       1d8        |
| 12th  |        +4         |                                 |       1d8        |
| 14th  |        +5         |                                 |       1d10       |
| 15th  |        +5         |                                 |       1d10       |
| 16th  |        +5         |                                 |       1d10       |
| 17th  |        +6         |                                 |       1d12       |
| 18th  |        +6         |                                 |       1d12       |
| 19th  |        +6         |                                 |       1d12       |
| 20th  |        +6         |                                 |       1d12       |

== Class Features ==
You gain the following features when you take up the Monk Class.

=== Hit Points ===
*Hit Dice:* 1d8 per Monk level
*Hit Points at 1st Level:* 8 + Constitution modifier
*Hit Points at Higher Levels:* 1d8 (5) + your Constitution Modifier per Monk level after 1st.

=== Proficiencies ===
*Armor:* None
*Weapons:* Simple, shortswords
*Tools:* Choose one from Artisan's Tools or Musical Instruments
*Saving Throws:* Strength, Dexterity
*Skills:* Choose two skills from Acrobatics, Athletics, History, Insight, Religion, and Stealth

=== Equipment ===
You start with either 200 gold or your choices from the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background.

 * a shortsword        or any simple weapon
 * a dungeoneer's pack or an explorer's pack
 * 10 darts

=== Martial Arts ===
At level 1, you have a Martial Arts Resource Die which is a 1d4.  You also have an associated Resource Level which is equal to the largest face of the die, and which changes based on the result of your roll.  If you roll the highest face of your Resource Die, you increase the Resource Level by one, up to the die's maximum.  If the result of your Resource Die roll is less than or equal to your current Resource Level, you lose one Resource Level.  If your Resource Level is 1 and you lose a level, you lose the resource.  You will regain your Resource Die after you finish a Long Rest.

As you grow in power as a Monk, your Resource Die will grow with you, and you will gain other abilities that utilize your Martial Arts Resource Die as well.

*Martial Arts DC.* The DC is 8 + your Proficiency Bonus + your Wisdom Modifier.

*Monk Weapons.* A monk weapon is a shortsword or any simple melee weapon that don't have the two-handed or heavy property.

You can use your Martial Arts Resource Die to perform the following actions.

TODO: Finish the below sections.
 * *Quick as a Snake.* When you use the Attack action and attack with an Unarmed Strike or Monk Weapon on your turn, you can make one unarmed strike as a Bonus Action. As a Bonus Action, you can expend one of your Hit Dice.  Roll it and your Resource Die.  You regain Hit Points equal to the sum of the two dice plus your Fighter level.
 * *Trip.* When you hit a creature with a Weapon Attack, you can attempt to knock your target down.  Roll your Resource Die and add the result to your attack's damage roll.  If the target is no more than one size larger than you, it must make a Strength saving throw.  
 * *Grapple.* When you hit a creature with a Weapon Atttack, you can attempt to grapple your target.  To do so, you must have at least one hand free and your target must be no more than one Size larger than you.  Roll your Tactics Resource Die and add the result to the damage of the attack.  The target is Grappled, and the grapple's escape DC is equal to your Tactics DC.
 * *Shove.* When you hit a creature with a Weapon Attack, you can choose to either push the target 5 feet away or knock the target Prone.  This shove is only possible if the target is no more than one Size larger than you.  Roll your Tactics Resource die and add the result to the damage of your attack.

=== Fighting Style ===
Choose one of the following options.  You can't choose an option more than once, even if you get to choose again later.

*Archery.* You gain a +2 bonus to attack rolls you make with ranged weapons.
*Defense.* While you are wearing armor, you gain a +1 bonus to AC.
*Dueling.* When you are wielding a melee weapon in one hand and no other weapons, you gain a +2 bonus to damage rolls with that weapon.
*Great Weapon Fighting.* When you roll a 1 or 2 on a damage die for an attack you make with a Melee Weapon that you are wielding with two hands, you can reroll the die and must use the new roll, even if the new roll is a 1 or 2.  The weapon must have the two-handed or versatile property for you to gain this benefit.
*Protection.* When a creature you can see attacks a target other than you that is within 5 feet of you, you can use your reaction to impose disadvantage on the attack roll.  You must be wielding a shield.
*Two-Weapon Fighting.* When you engage in two-weapon fighting, you can add your ability modifier to the damage of the second attack.

