= The World of Umia =

== Kingdoms ==
[[Astaedan]]

[[Races]]

== Racial Groupings ==
Dwarf, Goliath, Gnome, Human, Halfling
Elf, Firbolg, Gnome, Human, Halfling 
Dragonborn, Kobold, Human
Lizardfolk, Yuan-ti, Human
Bugbear, Goblin, Hobgoblin (Other races allowed only as slaves.)
Eladrin, Fairy, Centaur
Leonin, Tabaxi
Aarakocra, Owlin, Kenku
Drow, Svirfneblin, Duergar
Triton, Locathah, Grung, 
Githyanki, Githzerai
Satyr, Minotaur
Harengon,

== Common Races ==
These races are common and can be found in any racial grouping except where otherwise noted.
Human, Prinari (Halfling)

Shifter - Modified Human.
Kalashtar - Modified Human.


== Rare Races ==
These races are extremely rare and can be found in any racial grouping except where otherwise noted.

*Half-Elf* - Half Human, Half Elf.  Allowed anywhere humans or elves are allowed.  Are seen with sadness by elves and sometimes ignored or mistreated.  Often mistrusted by humans, unless in an Elven land.

*Half-Orc* - Half Human, Half Orc.  Allowed anywhere there are humans or orcs.  Some communities interbreed orcs and humans to maintain and cement alliances.  In these communities, half-orcs are celebrated as a sign of a thriving community.  In other communities, half-orcs are viewed with disdain as weaklings by orcs, and may be viewed with suspicion by humans.  Half-Orcs in non-orcish lands are often hated by humans and other races. 

*Tiefling* - Half Human, Half Fiend.  Allowed anywhere there are humans.  Tieflings are accepted only by the most compassionate and understanding of creatures.  Once a tiefling becomes known in a community, they are killed or ousted as the people cannot overlook the deceitful and dangerous beings who provide the fiendish side of the tiefling's bloodline.  Given a tiefling's propensity for growing tails or horns, this often doesn't take long, and most tieflings don't survive.  Even tieflings who do good are not trusted, since they are "obviously" attempting to deceive the faithful.

*Aasimar* - Half Human, Half Celestial.  Allowed anywhere there are humans.  Aasimar are widely accepted due to their celestial heritage.  Contrary to Tieflings, Aasimar have been known to be nearly worshipped by the people, even when they have clearly demonstrated a disdain for life.  Once their bloodline is known, some will attempt to explain away any act an aasimar commits as the will of heaven.

*Changeling* - Modified Human.  Allowed among any culture.  A Changeling is a human who was touched by the trickster god Lugh, more commonly known as Coyote, Nezha, or The Trickster.  These beings are gifted with the ability to change their forms with ease and blend in with any community.

*Genasi* - Half Human, Half Elemental.  Whether they are the result of a magical experiment or the evolution of an elemental with a long association with humans.

== Magic Items ==
=== Undefined Magic Items ===
* "Faerie Chainmail"
* "Espagra Saddle"
* "Talisman Statue"
* "Purse Ever Bountiful"
* "Espagra Boots"
* "Oratory Necklace"

=== Brooch of Might ===
When discovered, this brooch is just a pretty trinket that appears to have a magical potential to anyone in tune with the Arcane.
 * *Rank 1.* When the attuned wearer discovers the name of this item, the brooch grants them +1 AC.
 * *Rank 2.* When the attuned wearer discovers the name of the artist who created it (a dwarven craftsman named Holgar Sharpeye), the brooch grants them +1 to all Strength based damage rolls.
 * *Rank 3.* When the attuned wearer discovers who the brooch was crafted for (the hero Kailin Sureaxe), the brooch grants +1 to saving throws, and the additional damage increases to +2. 
 * *Rank 4*. When the attuned wearer performs a ritual bonding the brooch to them in blood, the brooch grants one additional hit die of a size appropriate to the character's primary class when you finish a Long Rest. If this hit die isn't used, it expires when you start your next Long Rest.
 * *Rank 5.* When the attuned wearer kills more than two creatures in a single combat, the brooch now restores health to the wearer when they make a kill.  When a creature dies in direct consequence to an attack by the attuned wearer of this item, roll a die determined by the type of hit die granted in Rank 4 and heal your character by that much.  This item is now cursed.  Should the wearer loose the brooch, their maximum hit points will be reduced by one each day until they recover it or they die.


